---
title: 'Balance Druid Gear Spreadsheet for The Emerald Nightmare'
date: Tue, 20 Sep 2016 15:23:07 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

**EDIT 2017-1-18:** Check out the 7.1.5 [Gear Spreadsheets for Nighthold](http://raidadvice.com/balance-druid-gear-spreadsheets-for-nighthold/). As I discussed in my prior post about [Preparing for The Emerald Nightmare](http://raidadvice.com/preparing-for-the-emerald-nightmare/), it can be useful, _after you have done all your other prep_, to figure out what gear you should be targeting in the instance. For reference, [here is my gear as of last night](http://imgur.com/a/J7s7r). I created a spreadsheet, outlining the possible upgrades in the Emerald Nightmare for my class and spec. If you are a Balance Druid that wants to use this sheet, I urge you to make a copy and enter your own starting gear, as well as to continue to update stat weights using a source you trust. This sort of spreadsheet has limited usefulness, as there are many out-of-raid sources of gear in Legion and titanforging exists. This sheet serves the limited purpose of showing what upgrades exist _for me, from the raid_. If you play any other class, this spreadsheet may serve as a model of something you want to create for yourself. [Here is the spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1uTej7J-su3NF3Uvjtjo4ChlZiz4zBgVw0sbM97YoJ4A/). One insight demonstrated by spreadsheet that is applicable to Balance Druids and may be of use to other classes: the crafted ring and neck-piece are better than non-warforged/non-socketed rings and neck-pieces available from the **mythic** raid. Balance Druids should look into getting these pieces if possible. Other classes should research them, especially if your class has a secondary stat that is valued much more highly than the other secondary stats.