---
title: 'What Boss Order Should We Follow in Nighthold After Mythic Trilliax?'
date: Mon, 27 Mar 2017 04:18:37 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

Now that my guild has cleared seven bosses in Mythic Nighthold, I have some perspective on what boss order you might want to pursue. What boss should you target now if you are just getting to 3/10 Mythic bosses down (with patch 7.2 right around the corner)? The options for what boss to do fourth are Spellblade Aluriel, High Botanist Tel'arn, Krosus, and Tichondrius. From easiest to hardest, I suggest Spellblade < Krosus = Botanist < Tichondrius. Why? **Spellblade** was [heavily nerfed](https://worldofwarcraft.com/en-us/news/20478238/hotfixes-march-21) just this past week. The boss is now definitely the easiest path forward. Follow this [video guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEy1JBsh5-Y) by Kelani or something similar. Our raid killed Spellblade 7th, and with the nerf, Spellblade is now _significantly_ easier than the other three options. **Krosus** has a DPS check that remains tight. However, the mechanics are fairly straightforward ([check out the RaidAdvice guide](http://raidadvice.com/krosus-guide-how-to-soak-burning-pitch/)), and if you lack the DPS check on Krosus, you are going to have a hard time on Tichondrius. There's an argument for doing Botanist if your guild is missing the Krosus DPS check, but overall I think Krosus is a bit easier. It also rewards Tier gear. **Botanist** is mechanically demanding and can be a frustrating fight. The hard part is getting down phase three, which comes after 6-8 fairly easy minutes of phase one and phase two. DPS is not a big issues on Botanist, and you may want to call for raiders to stop or slow DPS at certain points to ensure a smooth transition between the phases. **Miniguide on Botanist**: We did the  Naturalist > Arcanist > Solarist kill order. In phase three, we soaked the first set of [Call of Night](http://www.wowhead.com/spell=218809/call-of-night) debuffs, then had the 2nd and 3rd set suicide by running into [Toxic Spores](http://www.wowhead.com/spell=219235/toxic-spores) as soon as they got the debuff. Every ranged should be prepared to run alongside someone who gets the 2nd or 3rd debuff set to minimize ticking damage on the raid while they suicide, and healers should save big cooldowns in case ticking damage gets through. It's key to avoid deaths to silly mistakes in phase one and phase two so you can resurrect key players who suicide in phase three. **Tichondrius** is now the hardest of the bunch, in my opinion. It's close, and you could argue for doing Tichondrius after Spellblade. But while Krosus has a hard DPS check and Botanist requires mechanical precision, Tichondrius demands a bit of both from your raid. Blizzard did a great job with this balance of these bosses! Until the Spellblade nerfs, any of these four bosses was a viable fourth option. Giving meaningful choice to the raid in terms of boss order is cool. It allows guilds to pick a boss that might be more suited to their strengths (for example, Botanist for mechanically-oriented guilds or Krosus for guilds with top-notch DPS). Our raid killed Krosus > Tichondrius > Botanist > Spellblade. Since we knew we had the DPS check for Krosus, having killed it fourth like many other guilds did, we decided to do Tichondrius over Botanist since the mechanics on Botanist are a bit trickier. Ultimately, I think that Tichondrius ended up being harder to kill. It was a close decision on whether to do Botanist or Spellblade next (before the Spellblade nerf). Usually you can [follow wowprogress kill totals](http://raidadvice.com/use-wowprogress-to-pick-your-battles/) and just do the boss most people have killed and do fine. The kill counts right now line up with my recommended order, except that Spellblade still has fewer than Krosus, probably because the Spellblade nerf was so recent. Check out [this reddit thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/CompetitiveWoW/comments/60bytv/spell_blade_or_tich/) that discusses this topic. _The "correct" order might change based on subsequent patches - this is the order I recommend right at this moment. __I intentionally do not address the question of "Are there issues in my guild if we are just now getting to 3/10M, and what do we do about them?" I am only addressing boss order in this post._ Good luck with your progression!

---
### Comments:
#### 
[Zeirah](http://zisforzeirah.wordpress.com "zeirah123@gmail.com") - <time datetime="2017-04-05 23:40:02">Apr 3, 2017</time>

Your order is really interesting and shows that each group definitely can tackle the raid in varying ways. Our mythic progression after Trill was Bot - Krosus - Spell and Tich. And tbh I found Tich the most straightforward/easier of them all especially if you hold the brands rather than pop them. It makes one mechanic almost neglible to deal with.
<br>
